[LICENSING]

Reiser4 is hereby licensed under the GNU General
Public License version 2.

Source code files that contain the phrase "licensing governed by
reiser4/README" are "governed files" throughout this file.  Governed
files are licensed under the GPL.  The portions of them owned by Hans
Reiser, or authorized to be licensed by him, have been in the past,
and likely will be in the future, licensed to other parties under
other licenses.  If you add your code to governed files, and don't
want it to be owned by Hans Reiser, put your copyright label on that
code so the poor blight and his customers can keep things straight.
All portions of governed files not labeled otherwise are owned by Hans
Reiser, and by adding your code to it, widely distributing it to
others or sending us a patch, and leaving the sentence in stating that
licensing is governed by the statement in this file, you accept this.
It will be a kindness if you identify whether Hans Reiser is allowed
to license code labeled as owned by you on your behalf other than
under the GPL, because he wants to know if it is okay to do so and put
a check in the mail to you (for non-trivial improvements) when he
makes his next sale.  He makes no guarantees as to the amount if any,
though he feels motivated to motivate contributors, and you can surely
discuss this with him before or after contributing.  You have the
right to decline to allow him to license your code contribution other
than under the GPL.

Further licensing options are available for commercial and/or other
interests directly from Hans Reiser: reiser@namesys.com.  If you interpret
the GPL as not allowing those additional licensing options, you read
it wrongly, and Richard Stallman agrees with me, when carefully read
you can see that those restrictions on additional terms do not apply
to the owner of the copyright, and my interpretation of this shall
govern for this license.

[END LICENSING]

Reiser4 is a file system based on dancing tree algorithms, and is
described at http://www.namesys.com

mkfs.reiser4 and other utilities are on our webpage or wherever your
Linux provider put them.  You really want to be running the latest
version off the website if you use fsck.

Yes, if you update your reiser4 kernel module you do have to
recompile your kernel, most of the time.  The errors you get will be
quite cryptic if your forget to do so.

Hideous Commercial Pitch: Spread your development costs across other OS
vendors.  Select from the best in the world, not the best in your
building, by buying from third party OS component suppliers.  Leverage
the software component development power of the internet.  Be the most
aggressive in taking advantage of the commercial possibilities of
decentralized internet development, and add value through your branded
integration that you sell as an operating system.  Let your competitors
be the ones to compete against the entire internet by themselves.  Be
hip, get with the new economic trend, before your competitors do.  Send
email to reiser@namesys.com

Hans Reiser was the primary architect of Reiser4, but a whole team
chipped their ideas in.  He invested everything he had into Namesys
for 5.5 dark years of no money before Reiser3 finally started to work well
enough to bring in money.  He owns the copyright.

DARPA was the primary sponsor of Reiser4.  DARPA does not endorse
Reiser4, it merely sponsors it.  DARPA is, in solely Hans's personal
opinion, unique in its willingness to invest into things more
theoretical than the VC community can readily understand, and more
longterm than allows them to be sure that they will be the ones to
extract the economic benefits from.  DARPA also integrated us into a
security community that transformed our security worldview.

Vladimir Saveliev is our lead programmer, with us from the beginning,
and he worked long hours writing the cleanest code.  This is why he is
now the lead programmer after years of commitment to our work.  He
always made the effort to be the best he could be, and to make his
code the best that it could be.  What resulted was quite remarkable. I
don't think that money can ever motivate someone to work the way he
did, he is one of the most selfless men I know.

Alexander Lyamin was our sysadmin, and helped to educate us in
security issues.  Moscow State University and IMT were very generous
in the internet access they provided us, and in lots of other little
ways that a generous institution can be.

Alexander Zarochentcev (sometimes known as zam, or sasha), wrote the
locking code, the block allocator, and finished the flushing code.
His code is always crystal clean and well structured.

Nikita Danilov wrote the core of the balancing code, the core of the
plugins code, and the directory code.  He worked a steady pace of long
hours that produced a whole lot of well abstracted code.  He is our
senior computer scientist.

Vladimir Demidov wrote the parser.  Writing an in kernel parser is
something very few persons have the skills for, and it is thanks to
him that we can say that the parser is really not so big compared to
various bits of our other code, and making a parser work in the kernel
was not so complicated as everyone would imagine mainly because it was
him doing it...

Joshua McDonald wrote the transaction manager, and the flush code.
The flush code unexpectedly turned out be extremely hairy for reasons
you can read about on our web page, and he did a great job on an
extremely difficult task.

Nina Reiser handled our accounting, government relations, and much
more.

Ramon Reiser developed our website.

Beverly Palmer drew our graphics.

Vitaly Fertman developed librepair, userspace plugins repair code, fsck
and worked with Umka on developing libreiser4 and userspace plugins.

Yury Umanets (aka Umka) developed libreiser4, userspace plugins and
userspace tools (reiser4progs).

Oleg Drokin (aka Green) is the release manager who fixes everything.
It is so nice to have someone like that on the team.  He (plus Chris
and Jeff) make it possible for the entire rest of the Namesys team to
focus on Reiser4, and he fixed a whole lot of Reiser4 bugs also.  It
is just amazing to watch his talent for spotting bugs in action.

