MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Message-ID: <15392.39020.573047.826769@laputa.namesys.com>
Date: Wed, 19 Dec 2001 16:38:52 +0300
To: Reiserfs developers mail-list <Reiserfs-Dev@Namesys.COM>
Subject: [RFC]: objectids and localities management
X-Mailer: VM 6.96 under 21.4 (patch 3) "Academic Rigor" XEmacs Lucid
FCC: ~/documents/mail/outgoing
--text follows this line--
Hello,

there is one thing that seems awkward in current reiser{fs|4} design: in
a key we have both locality id (locid) and object id (oid). This is
slightly illogical because oid alone is unique, but we cannot find an
object given oid. This was, by the way, main reason behind our NFS
troubles. So, why is this strictly necessary? I'll try to reason from
the "first principles". Following account doesn't pretend to be of any
historical accuracy of course.

1. In a data structure we use to store objects (tree) items
   with close keys are packed into the same disk block. This means that
   we cannot completely separate key allocation from block
   allocation. That is,

      - tree forces us to encode disk location preferences in a key. (A1)

2. If we cannot completely separate key and block allocation let's try
   in stead to blend them together. That is, we rely on block allocator
   to follow tree ordering and topology: blocks containing items with
   close keys are allocated close on disk and blocks contiguous in tree
   order are more or less contiguous on disk. How far bitmap.c fulfill
   or can fulfill these goals is out of the scope of this discussion,

      - let's suppose that we have ideal block allocator. (A2)

3. Given this, why cannot we encode disk location preferences in oid
   alone? Because oid has to be unique and we cannot predict how many
   objects we are going to group together in a future (how many objects
   there will be in a directory that is). That is, suppose we create two
   directories "a" and "b" in succession. If oid were the only thing to
   store location preference, than we should leave after the oid of "a"
   enough unused oids for all objects within "a", but we don't know how
   many of them will be there.

4. To solve this (locid, oid) scheme was born. It has following
   advantages:

      - it is simple to implement
      - it allows one to encode enough location preference into the key (A3)

But the more people used reiserfs and the more files they started to
store in a single directory, the less valid (A3) became. oid became
inadequate location preference, because while it allows to separate
files from different directories it doesn't allow to order files within
single directory. For example readdir of big directory is slow, because
files are not sorted within directory. Various ad-hoc solutions have
been proposed (oid==hash, add "band" to oid, etc), but there is obvious
conflict between requirement that oid is unique and desire to encode
additional information in it. In effect all such solutions amount to
further splitting of (locid,oid) pair into (locid, someid, oid) for the
reasons similar to those on the steps 3,4 above.

The scheme proposed below tries to meet following goals:

 G1. only keep unique oid in a key, thus making it possible to find file
     given its inode number and additionally shrink key, increasing
     fanout.

 G2. allow configurable amount of fine-grained locality preference
     information to be associated with each oid, thus allowing files
     to be ordered in a tree according to some hierarchical "packing
     localities", for example: first order files by oid of parent
     directory, then by hash of name within this directory.


Proposal:

Maintain separate map (oidlocmap, implementation discussed below) from
oid to "locpref", where locpref is additional fine-grained location
preference data, associated with oid. For example locpref may be just
(locid) to emulate existing behavior, or (locid, hash) or (locid,
user-supplied-grouping-info), etc.

Key only contains oid, that is, ceteris paribus, key has form
(item-type, oid, offset). If oid is 60 bits, this is 16 bytes.

Ordering of items within tree (and, given (A2), their ordering on disk)
is completely determined by keycmp() function that compares two
keys. Before comparing two keys, keycmp(k1, k2) consults oidlocmap and
obtains locprefs, associated with oids of k1 and k2. locprefs then are
"pasted" into k1 and k2, producing "expanded" keys, containing full
location preferences information. Expanded keys are compared as usual.

In simplest case oidlocmap can be implemented as normal balanced tree,
where keys are oids (60 bits) and values locprefs. If we limit ourselves
to fixed format of locpref (at least per file system) than, we get
standard text-book balanced tree storing values of fixed size which is
simple to implement.

There is of course overhead of maintaining oidlocmap and, especially, of
consulting it on each keycmp(), but it looks to me that it will be not
that significant, because oidlocmap is compact and will be out-weighted
by increased fanout in the main tree.

Comments?

Nikita.
